no human being has truly black eyes
well unless you get in a fight but let's
play nice okay
some of us do have a lot of melanin so
the eye
might appear almost pitch black but a
lot depends on lighting conditions
in fact those who are believed to have
black eyes just have a really dark brown
eye color
an eyelash is here to stay for 150 days
only the world record for longest
eyelash was about
three inches you can whip yourself with
that eyelashes are also home for tiny
mites
the world's most common eye color is
brown there are
loads of different shades of brown but
the fun thing is they're actually blue
underneath all blue-eyed people have the
same ancestor as every other blue-eyed
person in the world
tears aren't just salty water they're
made of lipids
which is basically oil water and mucus
the salinity makes our tears
antibacterial
the coolest camera so far has 200
megapixels
the human eye has 576 megapixels
that's why sunsets are so much better in
real life than in photos
we blink about four million two hundred
thousand times a year
at least once every eight seconds it
would be cool if we were given the scent
every time we blink
we would make more than one hundred
dollars per day
it takes about a month for all your skin
cells to renew
we shed about thirty thousand dead cells
every sixty seconds
losing about eight pounds of skin each
year
our fingernails grow way faster than
toenails toenails grow almost four times
slower
because they accrue less damage than
fingernails
even though we often stub our toes a
sudden circulation burst
doesn't usually last long a human
produces from half a quart
to one liter of saliva every day
depending on the person
that's enough saliva in a year to fill a
bathtub
no spit saliva acts as a perfect remedy
wounds in our mouth heal way faster than
everywhere else
it also helps to taste food our taste
buds are ready to perceive
food only when it's dissolved by saliva
it may sound incredible but our bones
are stronger than they may seem
a cubic inch of human bone can bear
about 19
000 pounds making it four times stronger
than concrete
wait is that where the term block head
came from
the only thing that makes our blood
types different is sugar
a b and a b types have sugars while o
has none making it perfect for donors no
sugar doesn't make o type less sweet in
fact it attracts mosquitoes
even more than other blood types people
have only eight blood types
while cows have 800 and possibly more
holy cow have you ever seen those
strange ghostly looking
flies that seem to float aimlessly right
in front of your eyes or maybe even
inside your eyes well don't be afraid
these aren't flies at all
they're eye floaters they're especially
easy to see if you look at the blue sky
or other light in clear scenes floaters
aren't exactly
objects they're just tiny imperfections
in one special part of the main body of
the eye
called the vitreous we see them because
these structural
imperfections stand in the way of the
light that passes from pupil to retina
which forms your vision
so you don't have to rush to an
optometrist the next time you see them
they're usually perfectly harmless
the worst kind of waking up is when you
jerk or jump
startled with the terrible sensation
that you fell off
your bed or a cliff it turns out this
happens right after you've fallen asleep
at the exact moment all your muscles
simultaneously relax
your brain may mistake it as a distress
calm because
normally if all your muscles relaxed
you'd fall
to prepare you for the fall your brain
will naturally send a lot of quick
signals to your muscles to make them
work again
this phenomenon even has a special name
hypnic jerks the same thing also happens
on a smaller scale
making your legs or arms twitch when
you're falling asleep
when startled or just scared your legs
might become as
heavy as tree trunks your heart will be
pumping and your skin will get covered
in goosebumps
these are all result of the same process
a reaction to adrenaline coming into
your blood flow
when adrenaline kicks in it triggers
what's called the fight or
flight reaction this reaction causes
increased muscle tension and blood flow
making your legs feel heavy all your
body systems become highly alert
getting ready to act hard and act fast
but at the same time this reaction could
go two different ways
you might run like an olympic athlete or
you might not be able to move a single
muscle
the reason is that there are two kinds
of reactions to a dangerous situation
you can deal with it by overcoming it or
you can avoid it completely
because it's easier to pick fruits from
trees in rainy weather with hands like
that
no seriously let me explain the
wrinkling itself
happens when small blood vessels
constrict under the skin
but that's not the most interesting part
scientists discovered that if the nerves
in your fingers are damaged
the wrinkles won't appear at all no
matter how long they've been under water
that means that wrinkling happens
because of a specific reaction of our
body to water
it's not just a quality of the skin
itself so it must be important for some
biological reason further tests have
involved trying to collect wet glass
marbles with dry hands
and with wrinkly wet hands and they've
proved that it's much easier to collect
those marbles with wet hands
the same goes for feet too it's much
easier and safer to stand on a wet
surface with your feet covered in
wrinkles
i guess it's nature's way of improving
our grip in a slippery situation
your taste buds won't work properly if
your mouth is too dry
you simply won't feel the taste until
the food is covered in saliva
it contains enzymes which are complex
protein molecules
they start to break down your food as
soon as it gets into your mouth
a recent study has found out that people
can distinguish more than a trillion
smells
you tend to remember odors better than
sounds or images
that's why smells can evoke distant
memories
when you're asleep you don't feel any
odors your sense of smell basically
deactivates at night
even if there's some terrible stench in
your bedroom you won't notice it
i'm sure my dog is relieved to hear that
the color of your dream
seemed to be affected by the tv you
watched as a kid
if it was black and white you probably
see monochrome dreams more often than
not
if you're used to color television your
dreams are likely to be colorful
what kind of dreams did people in the
middle ages have then
nights that say knee your heart can give
you away when you lie
by starting to beat faster women's
hearts are usually smaller than men's
that's why they have to work harder and
make more beats otherwise
they won't be able to pump enough blood
even if you brush your teeth twice a day
and never forget about mouthwash your
mouth still remains one of the dirtiest
parts of your body
millions of bacteria live there the good
news is that most of them
are good for your health they protect
your body from bad bacteria and viruses
the second dirtiest place is your belly
button you don't really use it after you
were born
so this forlorn area accumulates all
kinds of germs sweat and dirt
the belly button has over 2 300
bacterial species
and it does need extra attention they
say
eyes don't grow with the rest of the
body well it's not a hundred percent
true
because the eyes aren't fully developed
until you're about 21
but the absolute growth champions here
are your ears and nose
they never stop growing wow what was
that thing about elephants again
must have been a different video if all
your blood vessels were stretched into a
single line
dang you would be in a really tough spot
but they
would go round the earth four times you
can't tickle yourself no matter how hard
you try
you've just checked that and failed
haven't you that's because your brain
warns you that you're about to be
tickled
which it can't do if it's someone else
ever wondered why you feel so sleepy
after lunch
one of the reasons is your circadian
rhythm which runs on a 24-hour cycle
it demands that you have a nap seven
hours after waking up
and the food just adds to this effect as
simple as that
excuse me it's time
all muscles in your body are connected
to bones at two ends
that's how they pull and create motion
but there's one exception
it's your tongue on one side it's
connected to a part of your neck
but there's nothing connecting the other
side
the average person has about 250 hairs
per eyebrow
but some individuals can have as many as
eleven hundred hairs in total
um speaking of eyebrows they prevent
raindrops and sweat from getting in your
eyes
and their arched shape makes the liquid
slide to the sides of your face
even if fingerprints are damaged they
always grow back
in the way they used to be
your skeletal cells never stop
regenerating that's why you'll get a
completely new skeleton
every 10 years or so this process slows
down with age though
and the regeneration takes longer that's
why bones become thinner
people are taller in the morning during
the day the cartilage around the bones
gets compressed
which makes you shorter in the evening
when you're at rest your liver is the
organ that gets the largest blood supply
by the way the liver is also the biggest
solid organ in your body
an adult person takes 12 to 16 breaths a
minute
it adds up to 17 000 to 23 000 breaths
a day there are also almost 700 muscles
in your body
the smallest of them is in the middle of
your ear its main purpose is to
stabilize the stapes
the tiniest bone in your body it's
responsible for transmitting sound waves
to your inner ear
[Music]
people find it hard to recognize someone
they know if they're shown an image of
this person
without eyebrows it means that brows are
more important for face recognition than
eyes
blondes have the biggest number of hair
follicles around 146 thousand
the second place belongs to people with
black hair they have 110 follicles
brown-haired individuals lag behind with
000 hair follicles with 86 000 follicles
on average
redheads have the least dense hair
most people are trichromats they see
three primary colors
blue yellow and red but there are some
with a fourth cone cell in their retina
they can distinguish four primary colors
blue
yellow red and green it makes the world
look brighter to them
feet can become bigger ligaments and
tendons in them weaken with time
which makes the arches flatter and feet
wider and longer
the stomach in your throat feeling you
experience while riding a roller coaster
is indeed your inside shifting some of
your organs like your intestines or
stomach
are connected rather loosely but don't
worry
there's no harm in having some fun
afterward everything kind of slides back
in place
why do we bite our lips how often do you
find yourself biting your lips
one reason you do is psychological this
bad habit appears with stress and
anxiety
our brain gives our body in order to
bite our lips
so that we think less about problems and
calm down
there's also a less psychological reason
it could be just that your lips are
chapped because of the cold
your brain tells you to bite your lips
to refresh them
but in the end you get the opposite
effect
cracked and painfully irritated lips
better grab some chapstick
it happens that you have such a cool
dream that you could immediately write a
hollywood script from it
but as soon as you wake up you forget 90
of it the brain prevents you from
remembering your dreams for your own
good
we remember the past structurally
logically
and in a certain order dreams are
chaotic full of symbolism and strange
images
so the brain thinks ah this guy already
has enough on his plate in real life
he doesn't need that dream consuming his
thoughts
yes my brain has a bad french accent
so anyway we often wake up with thoughts
about the coming day
so the dream immediately gets kicked out
of your memory bank
yeah brain why do you cut my sleep short
maybe the old thinker is worried about
being late for work or class
no it's just that waking up to an alarm
clock is a big shock for the body
to avoid this unnecessary stress the
brain
releases a protein that's responsible
for wakefulness
it'd be pretty handy if you could
fine-tune this superpower
then you can forget about ever
oversleeping yet why do we react to it
with laughter
well it's because the most ticklish
areas the armpits and the stomach
happen to cover vital organs and
arteries so nature has made them very
sensitive
response to that sensation can border on
pleasure
since all those nerves are being
stimulated and fear
for your important innards so you
immediately try to guard these areas
laugh until you cry and beg the tickler
to please
stop but get this when we tickle
ourselves
the body immediately sends a signal to
the brain stomach to brain
there is no danger don't react to this
day tickling is still
a bit of a mystery to scientists we get
visible armpit stains at the most
inopportune moments during a speech on a
date
at a job interview i know it's
embarrassing but your body is trying to
protect you
it releases sweat in response to any
danger or stress
if you were an early human trying to get
out of a headlock with a rival
then your wet skin would be slippery
sweaty palms also cling to tree branches
better
next time you're giving a presentation
just remember
you'll be able to slip out of an enemy's
grip and climb up a tree
yeah it's handy running and walking
would be a challenge without a big
toe it's the most important one bearing
40 percent of the body's weight
if you go into space you can grow up to
two inches taller
you can thank zero gravity for expanding
the discs in between each vertebra
they get squished here on earth while
listening to this fact
fifty thousand cells in your body were
replaced with new ones
seven octillion is the amount of atoms
the average adult body is made up of
that's seven billion billion or seven
followed by 27 zeros tomatoes have 7 000
more genes than humans
just goes to show you more doesn't
always mean better
maybe juicier a caterpillar has more
muscles than you do
while we have about 650 they have 4
000 again strength isn't always in
numbers
human sweat is actually odorless it's
the bacteria
on your skin that interacts with the
sweat and produces that
smell every person has the same number
of fat cells
no matter how thin or plump they are
these cells just get bigger or smaller
and you can't get rid of them with diet
and exercise
humans have the same number of hairs on
their body as
chimps do good thing most of ours are
too fine and light to be seen
though a thicker natural coat would be
nice in winter
especially in dayton